# Recipe-Sharing-Web-Application

****Description

Foodlicious is an idea for users to share recipes and give feedback to/from other users, similar to stackoverflow.
This site allows user to create their own account and set up an user profile. Users can upload their own recipes and see other's recipes.
Users can review others' recipes including a rate, tags and comments and  receive feedback for their own recipes in the same way.
Every recipe will be given a rate by each review and a ranking system will be established for recipe ranking based on its overall rating, tags and comments.
Each users's data as average ratings to other recipes, average rating of his own recipes will be recorded and shown in the profile page.
Users can search recipes by various criteria.

****Usefulness

Recipe sharing is a very popular idea these days. We'd like to create a website where users can upload, get feedback on their self-published recipes from other users, search recipes, and also be recommended with recipes.
The advantage of our website compared to other recipe blogs is that we combine multiple functions together. For users, you can both upload and search for recipes. You can also rate recipes and a ranking system of recipes will be established so that you will automatically recommended with recipes that you may like.

****Realness

Our data will mainly consist of recipes. In addition, we will play with users'profile, search history and the reviews of recipes including comments, tags, ratings, and consequent evaluation attribute such as ranking.
Our recipes can be uploaded by the users. But most of our recipes will be obtained from the web. Reviews can be generated by users or retrieved from websites.


****Features

Basic Functions:

-Creating and modifying User Accounts(Registration & Log in)

-Uploading and Deleting files

-Viewing, Comments and Feedback on  recipes

-Rating and adding tags to recipes

-Searching with multiple criteria


****Advanced Functions

-Ranking recipes based on their ratings, tags and comments

-Recommend recipes based on similarity between users and recommend high-rating, low-calorie recipes:
We intend to build a recommender system using user based collaborative filtering method. The basic idea  is to find the user who is most similar to the current user, and use the ratings from this most similar user to make recommendations. Also, we need to consider the actual usefulness of the recommendation so that we return those results with highest ratings/rankings and lowest calories.
